---
title: "Project: Data Science Q3; 202500300,202500301 (2025-2A)"
source: "https://canvas.utwente.nl/courses/18190/pages/project"
author:
published:
created: 2026-02-02
description:
tags:
  - "clippings"
---
[Close](https://canvas.utwente.nl/courses/18190/pages/#)

[← Back to Module Guide](https://canvas.utwente.nl/courses/18190/pages/module-guide)

A project in the Data Science course is a *real-world data set* combined with one or more *real-world challenges*. There are several projects offered: see Canvas for details on the offered projects. You need to choose one project and work on it in the same group, i.e., with the same partner as the topic assignments.

**'Open' project:** You are not expected to solve all or even one challenge fully. The project is 'open' in the sense that you need to choose a focus: define your own goal and (research / business) questions that your project answers. This choice of focus should be relevant for the given challenge(s). You are expected to pay attention to methodology: take relevant steps and show that you have a systematic and methodologically sound way of working. You are also expected to show a critical attitude regarding the data as well as the results of your project.

**Requirement 'Primary topic':** Obviously the project is also meant for applying what you have learned in your chosen topics. You are required to designate one of the chosen topics as *primary*. In the assessment of the project, understanding and proper application of that topic is specifically taken into account as an assessment criterion.

**Creating more technical depth:** In the Data Science course, we encourage you to go beyond what you have learned, i.e., to go beyond the primary topic. So, whenever it is relevant to apply other techniques or methods for your project's goal(s), then go ahead and apply them. It could be techniques and methods from your other topic, from other courses, from what you find in literature, etc.

**ChatGPT:** Use of ChatGPT or similar AI systems is permitted during the project as well as for the project reflection report. However, students are expected to be transparent, i.e., indicate its use and to mention the purpose of using AI.

**Deliverables:** The project has three main deliverables: a presentation, a project reflection report, and the programming source code. The latter is a means to an end and need not be submitted. The first two are described below.

## DSDV Presentation

It is required to give a presentation to show your skills in data visualization and data storytelling. To have something to present about, the presentation is about your project. The intended audience for the project is: 'upper management'. The time is very limited: 10 minutes with 2 minutes for questions. You need to think for yourself what is important to include in the presentation, i.e., what this audience finds important, hence also what to leave out as less important for this audience. Furthermore, be aware that this audience in general has low data literacy, i.e., use simple non-technical language and explain notions if you believe your audience may not know or understand them.

To help you to do this properly, there is a lecture on “Data visualization and data storytelling”.

There are many presentation sessions scheduled. Each can hold up to 8 presentations. You need to only attend one presentation session, namely the one in which you present yourself. Somewhere in the middle of the quartile, you are invited to choose the session you'd like to present in. In this way, there is flexibility to avoid any constraints you have due to other courses or other (private) obligations. If you have many such obligations in this period, be sure to quickly register yourself for a session: it is first-come-first-serve.

The rubric for assessment of the presentation is published on Canvas.

## Project reflection report assessment

Your project will be assessed with a project reflection report. The format and questions of the template are published on Canvas. It is required that you write and submit your report using the Ma’at app ([https://maat.eemcs.utwente.nl/auth/login](https://maat.eemcs.utwente.nl/auth/login)). The reflection report will be assessed by two teachers and the results will be averaged.